All right, now in this lesson, let's also implement the ability to update records, which is a function
that we often need when working with databases.
So first thing I want to do is back over here in the tests.
Let me clear out this little experimental test method here.
And by the way, let me say something real quick about that.
So this is a technique that I like to use from time to time.
If I need to just test out my understanding of how a snippet of code might work within the bigger context
of an entire application, right?
I just need a place to run some code really quickly.
I often will turn to a unit test like this where I'll just create a quick test.
It's not something that I plan to keep around, but I just want to try something out real quick.
So this is one way that you can do that.
It's kind of the equivalent to creating a public static void main method somewhere.
But as you will start to see as you progress in learning Java and when we implement a more fully fledged
web application, the public static void main approach that we've been doing a lot of things with really
doesn't even apply anymore.
So you kind of just need a place that's separate and distinct where you can try things out real quick
in this.
This is a this is an OK place to try some of those things sometimes.
All right.
So anyway, bye bye.
And I'll clear that all out there.
All right, so let's create a new test method.
And let's see public void, and let's just say can update.
All right.
So what do we want to do here?
I'm thinking we will create a new person, will put that person into the database, then we will retrieve
that person from the database, then we will modify that person object.
Then we will call a new update method passing in this modified person to the database.
Then we will retrieve that person by their ID.
Again, from the database.
And so now we should have the two person objects in our code and then we can assert that whatever field
we changed is actually different between those two fields.
Something along those lines?
OK.
All right.
So let's see here.
I think I will start by just duplicating a save line like this one and then bringing it down.
All right.
That's step one.
OK.
And then so let's see.
So we just created a person and we just saved them to the database, all in one fell swoop.
So now let's retrieve them from the database.
Find by ads so we can refer to their saved person that get added method there, and so that should that
should retrieve them.
Now keep in mind that with this, find by ID method currently returns an optional person, and I don't
feel like being bothered with all of that.
So I'm just going to call get directly again because I'm in a test.
I know for certain that under normal circumstances, this call to get will return an actual instance,
and if it doesn't, then this test should should actually fail.
So that's fine.
All right, then I'll capture that person.
And I don't know.
I'll call it a found p.
All right for person.
All right.
So then we will update a field on this person.
And I actually was thinking something here in the people table of the database.
We actually created a salary column as well, but we haven't actually modeled that column in Java.
So I'm thinking, let's go ahead and model that column in Java and then let's modify that.
Let's update that.
OK.
All right.
So to do that, let's jump over to the person class and let's add a salary filled now.
First thing we got to consider is what data type to use to model this.
So it's salaries, right?
So we're talking about money.
So possibly the most correct way to model this might be using a big decimal.
So let's let's try that big decimal.
And we'll call this salary, and I don't know, let's see here, let's go down towards the bottom ish.
Not quite that far, but with all these getters and setters here, it's generate a getter and setter
for the new salary.
They're so getter setter every girl.
All right, so there's that.
And so now let's return to our test class.
And so now let's take this found person here and let's set a salary on them, which shouldn't be there
now at this point that lie at the point of line one of six, right?
So we will call found peaked set salary and let's go ahead and set a salary on this person.
So a decent way to do this would be to actually create a new instance of a big decimal and then use
a string.
OK.
So I don't know.
We can say something like seventy three thousand and thirty four cents.
OK.
Notice I'm leaving off the dollar signs and commas and all of that because the big decimal wouldn't
understand all of that.
We'd have to use an instance of a no format, a currency instance of a no format to be more specific.
If we wanted to be able to input all of that stuff and we're not, I'm not going to bother with all
of that.
All right.
So there's the new salary, OK?
And so now I think we can call our repo, that update, which doesn't exist yet, and then we will pass
in this found person like so and so let's go ahead and make the ADP happy here.
Yeah, I'm fine with that.
Returning a void and fine with the data type being person and we'll call the variable their person.
OK, so that's enough for that.
Let's go back over to the test.
OK, good.
OK, so the red mark went away and then let's go ahead and retrieve this person again.
So we will do another find by I.D..
And we will reference, I mean, I guess we can reference the found persons I.D. and I will do a get
again as well and then capture that.
And this time, I guess I will call this found person to OK.
And so finally, let's assert that found person found person to that salary is not equal.
Now here's the thing we've got a few choices to make here.
Now we could do not equal to or we've got this is not equal by comparing two.
I'm kind of liking that.
I'm really liking that because I know that the comparing to is going to actually call the comparator
of the big decimal class.
And so I know that by using the comparator, it's going to use the most context aware approach to comparing
these two big decimals.
So let's try that out.
All right.
And so then we will reference the original found person instance dont get salary.
Now I can already anticipate one problem that we are going to run into here.
Now, can you anticipate what problem we are pretty much certainly going to run into right away?
All right.
So I think what's going to end up happening even after we implement properly this update method is that
the original instance here that that was in the database that is now loaded into memory?
This found PPI, not the found P2, but the found PPI doesn't have a salary at all.
With the current implementation of code that we have here, that salary is going to be null because
it's never been defined or set anywhere at all.
And so when we get down here to this assertion, we're going to end up with a null pointer exception
on this call right here if we use this as is, but let's go ahead and run it and see.
All right.
Expecting actual not to be null, yes, so it's null as as as we could anticipate.
So one thing we could do to ensure that we don't have that kind of problem is let's go back into the
person class here.
We could actually initialize this salary to a value right off the bat, just in memory and in memory
value.
We could do that.
Let's see what that would look like.
So we could do something in line right here at the declaration new big decimal.
And then we could just pass in a zero.
Right?
We could just initialize that salary to zero.
So if you don't specify anything, the salary will well, at least not be null.
It will be set to something.
And that is zero.
We could we could do that.
All right.
So let's see what this does now.
OK, so let's see here, what do we have that should not have passed, right?
Assert that the found persons salary is not equal to the original salary?
OK, so I see the flaw in this test here.
Do you see the flaw in it if you don't go ahead and take a moment to look at this carefully?
All right, did you find the floor?
So we're creating a new person and saving them, and currently the implementation of Repot Saved does
not save the salary.
OK.
Then we're retrieving that person by their I.D. here now because we are going ahead and initializing
that salary in the Java code.
There will be a salary equal to zero.
Right?
So then we are going ahead and explicitly setting the salary to 73000.
OK.
And then we're calling Update, which currently doesn't do anything right?
It's literally just an empty method right now.
So that's not doing anything.
But this first person in memory has a salary of seventy three thousand.
Keep that in mind.
Then we're calling find bid to retrieve that person, according to their I.D. and storing that instance
of the same person in found P2.
Now what do you think this person's salary is going to be at this point?
We just loaded them up from the database right into a new instance in memory, so their salary is going
to be zero.
Right?
Because we don't save salary information to the database yet, we haven't taught any.
We haven't touched the repository how to save any salary data anywhere at all yet.
OK.
And so this guy here is going to have a salary of zero, which is going to come from the line where
we are declaring an initializing the big decimal for the salary right here.
Line 13, right.
That's where the zero is going to come from.
OK.
And so then we're going to assert that these two instances have different salaries.
Well, yes, they do have different salaries, right?
Because we're explicitly setting the first person salary to 73000.
OK.
So this approach is flawed.
We don't want to do it this way.
So I think let's try this a little differently.
And I'm actually going to go ahead and just get rid of all of this.
Let's let's just let's do this a little differently here.
OK.
So I think let's try this way.
Let's retrieve this person signed by I.D..
Saved person, oops, saved the person, Kennedy, don't get.
And let's just store them in someone called P.1.
OK, now let's set a salary on this instance here.
Like this saved person that said salary to new big, small 73000 in some sense.
And then let's call a report update and an update that saved the person.
OK, so basically that means like we save them, right?
And then let's call a report, find loops, find by I.D. and then let's get their I.D. that get.
And let's save a reference to this person in P2.
And now let's assert that P2 that get salary is not equal by comparing to P1 that gets salary.
All right, so let's analyze this now.
I think we got it here.
So let me make some room here.
All right.
So we're getting a snapshot of P1 loaded from the database before we make any changes and that's P1.
OK.
And then we're going to take this originally saved instance of the same person, and we're going to
update their salary, right?
We're going to set the salary and then call update.
And that should update the one and only record for this person in the database.
If this were implemented right, and then we're going to turn around and retrieve that person again
from the database.
And so if update was implemented properly, this P2 should have a salary of seventy three thousand.
But this P1, which was retrieved before we made any changes anywhere, should have a salary of zero.
Right.
So this one should have a salary of zero.
This one should have a salary of 73000.
That's the point, right?
And if P1 and P2 have different salaries, then this test will pass if they have the same salary.
This test should fail.
So let's run this and see what we end up with now.
There we go.
OK, so now we've got a properly failing test.
And so this really highlights the fact that we need our tests to fail before we go implementing anything.
Otherwise, you can't be certain that you've actually implemented the needed functionality.
So I chose to go ahead and leave my own mistake of how I initially tried to write this test.
I've chosen to leave this in this lesson because I'm human, and no matter how good you are, you're
going to get confused and make mistakes like this.
And this really under underscores the reason why with TDD or any testing, but especially especially
with TDD, you first write the test and then you have to see it fail, especially if it's the first
of its kind.
Now, you know, if we implemented update and then we wrote some more update related test methods and
the implementation of Update was so good that had already happened to cover whatever additional test
methods we wanted to to run.
That's one thing, right?
But this is the first of its kind here to test the ability to update, right?
And so we need to see this test fail first.
Now, the only way hopefully, that this test should be able to pass is by us actually implementing
a proper update method.
OK.
And so that's why your tests have to fail first before you can proceed.
All right.
So now let's go make this pass.
So I'm going to jump into the update method here and let me make some room.
All right.
And so now we can pretty much do our boilerplate type thing connection dot prepared statement.
And so what we'll do here is we will update people set first name.
Now we're the way we're going to do this, by the way, is we're going to just make our update method
update.
I think all of the fields.
OK, we could get fancy and we could do this in a lot of ways.
We could have update methods that specialize in each and every field.
And then you could even write code that would figure out which field in the Java side had changed and
then only update just that field in the database.
That would be highly efficient to do.
But it would be a lot of code that we don't have time to write.
So not going to do that.
We'll just make our update almost identical to the save, except that it will update.
All right.
So we'll set the first name equal to a parameter comma.
This is how we can set multiple fields or multiple columns, OK, just with the set keyword and then
comma.
So set first name equal to whatever last last name, equal to whatever date of birth, equal to whatever.
And now we'll also throw in salary salary equal to whatever where.
And this is important now because without the where clause, we'd be changing all of these values for
all records in that table.
That would be terrible.
Where ID equals whatever.
OK.
So that's what we need there.
I keep doing this a little backward, don't I?
Let me first capture the prepared statement.
All right, and then let's wrap this in a try catch block, sorry, might try catch stuff as run off
the screen, but you've seen it enough by now.
OK.
All right.
So there's that.
So now we need to start binding all of these values, right?
So that set string, because we'll do the first thing.
First of the first parameter will be the person died.
Get first name.
All right.
Then search string.
And we'll do the second parameter, which is the person died.
Get last name.
All right, and then starts, what is it, date of birth, so now that was a timestamp.
All right.
So that's the third parameter.
Now we had to do a bunch of stuff before when we did the save, right?
Yeah, here it is.
We had to do all of this right now.
What we can do, I mean, I could go ahead and just duplicate this, this little snippet of code, but
I want to be a little fancy for you and teach you to make sure that you look for opportunities to extract
methods and reuse code and things like that, right?
So what we can do is just select all of this up to the parentheses that closes off this value of right
here.
And I'm inclined to go ahead and extract a method of this selection here.
So I'm going to do an option command M to select the method here, and I'm going to call this maybe
convert D0 B to time stamp enter.
All right.
And now let's jump down to this method here.
Now it went a little overzealous for what I was meaning to do, and it assumed that I wanted the entire
person as the input.
But actually, what I was kind of more like wanting was just the date of birth.
So I think what we can do here is to select just that bit there and we can parameter ize that.
So I'm selecting the date of birth from the person that get the job here, and then I'm going to do
an option command p for parameters.
This is to introduce a parameter.
We've done this maybe once before.
All right.
There it is, right there.
And notice now it's even basically scratching out that person there, right?
And so yes, we'll call this new thing this new parameter date of birth or in them and hit enter.
There we go.
So until the is pretty, pretty intelligent, right?
It knew that I no longer needed or wanted the person that we were passing in.
I'm replacing that with the date of birth there.
And if we go back up to where this method is being utilized now right up here, convert date of birth
to time stamp, now it's doing the right thing.
It's passing in person.
Typekit date of birth, which is the way I intended for this method to work in the first place.
And now I can just call this method.
Now I prefer for this to be out of the way, though I'm going to cut that and get rid of the gaps there,
and I'm going to move that somewhere down out of my way because now it's kind of like a utility type,
type of method, really.
So I'm going to put it down here.
OK, so now back to the update method, now I can call this convert method here and then just pass in
the person died, get date of birth like that, OK?
And so now that's that's taking that date of birth and converting it into a time stamp in the way needed,
right?
Doing all of that stuff.
And I don't have to duplicate the the specific details of how I convert the date of birth to a timestamp
by warping the time to GMT zero and all of that.
OK.
And perhaps equally as importantly, there's only one place where I do that now.
Right.
So if I decide ever to change how we are storing dates in the database and not have it be relative to
GMT zero, I can just go to one place and do that there.
And as long as I was smart enough to use this same method everywhere where I have to do timestamp stuff,
they all will update accordingly.
All right, so there's that and then we need to set the salary now.
Now, the salary we modeled as a, I think what we use here, let's jump over to the database and see,
OK, so for the salary, we used a data type in H2 called decimal.
OK.
Let's see what that maps to in Java sequel.
So let's see what we've got here.
Set?
Oh, we got a big decimal right there.
There we go.
OK.
So this is our fourth parameter.
And so this will be person that gets salary.
Here we go.
Looks good.
And finally, I think we should have a last parameter one two three four.
Yeah, a fifth parameter, which is going to be the ID piece that set long.
We modeled that as a long fifth parameter person died.
Get IED.
There we go.
All right, so that's everybody now.
All right.
And so then we can simply call PPS Dot Execute Update.
I'm not even going to bother to capture the output of that at this time.
OK.
Let's see if that's all we needed.
So let's jump back over to our test and run it.
Nope.
Let's click on it and see oh, well, as usual, I'm in the database already.
So let me get out of the database.
All right.
Let's try that again.
OK.
No, let's see.
Ah.
And I know another problem that we're going to see here now.
Do you know what the next problem is?
The next problem is with our find by Edy.
So let's go take a look at find by.
So when we find a person first off, what columns do we actually retrieve?
Let's go look at our sequel.
So when we find a person by IED, we are getting the I.D., the name, the first name, the last name
and the date of birth, and that's it.
We're not even retrieving the salary.
So now we need that salary.
OK, so let's add that in.
Salary.
Now we're going to run into issues, potentially if we write enough tests with the Find All as well.
We'll hold off on that for right now, though, because technically we should probably write test that
would force us to fix that.
OK.
All right.
So find my ID.
So now we need to retrieve the salary.
OK, so that's one issue that's not going to be the only one, though.
OK, so there's that query we'd be getting that.
But then we have this method here extract person from results set, right?
So if we jump down into here, we also have to then take those values from the results set and then
set them back on the person.
And we don't currently do that.
So we'll need to do that also.
So let's just make another line here and we will do results that get big decimal.
And so now this will be a column called salary, right?
And let's capture that, yeah, and we'll call it salary.
And now we need to set that on this person now.
Currently, we're using a constructor to do that, but we don't have a constructor that takes the salary
now.
Now we could modify this constructor here, but I can tell you what's going to happen if we do that,
which we maybe should eventually.
But then that's going to break any other code where we're currently using this constructor and then
we'd have to go and fix all of those.
And there would be a big ripple effect.
You usually want to try to keep your code breakages as narrow as you can so that you're not just having
to play whack a mole all over the place.
Right.
You don't want these ripple effects or these cascading breakages, if you will.
You kind of want to try, if you can, to keep your breakages of your code as narrow as possible.
So what I'm thinking to do here is I'm going to go ahead and reference woops reference this new salary
field, but here's what I'm going to do.
Now the idea is telling me that there is no constructor that takes this many arguments right of this
type.
So I'm going to let it create a new constructor for us, for me.
OK, so I'm going to go ahead and click on that.
Create new constructor.
By the way, I got that by hovering over the red marks, right?
And then create constructor.
You could also come over to this light bulb here, and it gives you even more options right there.
You could change the signature of an existing constructor, but I don't want to do that right now.
I'm just going to create an additional constructor.
OK, one that takes all of these fields like so.
So I'm going to accept that, and I'm going to call this just IED, and I'll accept all of these things
as they are.
Yeah.
OK.
And then what I will do now is I will delegate to an existing constructor and we did this before already
when we created this constructor up here, right?
So we're just going to basically do that kind of pattern again.
Right.
So I'm going to call this now.
Remember that if I call the this method here to refer to a different constructor, it needs to be the
very first line in the constructor, OK?
This and I will pass in the idea in the first name and the last name and the date of birth, right?
Just like that.
And then I can just additionally call this that salary equals salary.
There we go.
OK.
That way, I don't have to type a whole lot of stuff and I can reuse as much code in the form of these
constructors as possible, right?
And I don't know.
I would kind of like to move all of this up.
I think.
Above here, because this guy is depending on this one and this one's depending on that one, I just
that.
All right.
So that just makes me feel good to have my constructor's kind of make some kind of sense there.
Let's jump back over to the repository.
OK, cool.
So the red marks have gone away now.
All right.
Let's see.
So we are returning the newly created person who now should have an an actual salary.
Oh, now I can see that the find all method probably is going to be broken because I did not update
its query to retrieve the salary, but we'll cross that bridge when we get to it.
OK.
All right.
So let's jump back over to the test now.
Let's run it again.
All right, still failing.
Let's see what's up now, cannot read field scale, because Val is null.
OK, interesting.
So this looks like it's getting pretty far now, and it might be hanging, getting hung up on the assertion
where we're doing the equal not equals by comparison.
So let's try something here.
Let's just try doing a is not equal to a little bit simpler, maybe.
All right.
Let's see what that does.
Hey, there we go.
Now, to make absolutely certain, because now I just changed a fundamental aspect of of what I'm comparing
here, and so now I need to make absolutely certain that the update method really is still working,
actually.
So what I'm going to do here is this for a minute, I'm just going to comment out that that implementation
of update to take it back to before we actually had implemented anything.
And then I'm going to rerun this and see this fail again.
There we go.
Cool.
OK, good.
So that does fail if you don't have an actual implementation of update.
All right.
Now I'm pretty satisfied, so I'm going to undo that comment and then I'm going to run this again.
There we go.
There you go.
OK, so now let's jump back over to the test method again.
OK, so that is not equal with compared to I had actually not used that before.
I just wanted to give it a try, and I'm going to have to read up on that and see exactly what it's
doing.
I assumed it would have just been calling the compared to method of the big decimal.
And maybe it is, and maybe there's some issues that we have to be more mindful of.
But with just the basic is not equal to this is working as I was expecting.
And it looks like you do have to have a working implementation of update now to make ourselves feel
a little worse.
Let's go ahead and run all the tests, and I'm pretty sure the find all method and maybe some other
stuff too for all I know is going to fail.
So let's try everything now.
Yeah, we got one failed test and it is the can find, OK, well, that's pretty good actually, that
only the can find all method is failing and nothing else, right?
So I think we can go ahead and fix this really, really quickly.
So what we'll do is we'll jump back over to the repository, and I think we already know where to go.
It's with this find all sequel.
We need to add in the retrieving of the salary as well now.
So I'm going to just add that in real quick salary, just like that.
And maybe this will work with no further changes.
I don't know.
Let's just see this is where it's nice again to have a nice suite of tests.
Sometimes you can kind of turn your brain off a little bit and just trust the tests.
OK.
So before I have to get super smart and second, guess everything, let's just run the tests and see
if that's all we needed.
Hey.
Apparently, that is all we needed now.
I do want to point out something.
One of the reasons why that's all we needed is because we were relatively smart in some of our preparations
for things.
By reusing methods like extract person from results sat here and yeah, and here as well in the find
when when we fixed it for one, we fixed it for all, essentially.
Also, though, when we broke it for one, we broke it for all right.
So by just adding the salary portion up here, that's all we needed to do to make that all work again,
apparently.
So now we have implemented an update method.
Now just looking at this again, just acknowledging that we had to think this through a little bit more
just in terms of how to get a working test scenario.
So a big part of testing with TD or even without TDD is taking the time to really come up with a halfway
decent test scenario, right?
Like how are we going to test this scenario?
And sometimes that's not so straightforward as as we saw here, right?
We first have to just figure out, OK, how do we do we save the thing first and then we retrieve it
and then we change it, and then we put it back, and then we have to get it back again and then we
change it.
You know, you have to think through these things.
But the main thing is make sure that whatever you do, you have a failing test before you go and implement
any real code, right, as long as you start with a failing test.
Then you implement some code, then you run the test again and then hopefully it passes.
Then you can mostly trust that you're probably on the right path.
OK.
All right.
So let's go ahead and bring this one to a close and I will see you in the next one.